


# Platform of the Wyoming Republican Party

WE 
*believe there are Timeless Truths that will always inform and direct 
our party and our country regardless of current events and 
circumstances, changing strategies, goals, and leadership. 
These Truths, put into action, maintain, protect, and defend our 
unalienable rights to Life, Liberty, Property and the Pursuit of 
Happiness.*[1](1.md)

**Life**

1. All individuals are endowed by their Creator from the moment of 
conception to the moment of natural death with the rights to Life, 
Liberty, Property, and the Pursuit of Happiness. The only purpose of 
government is to protect these rights for all.


**Equality**

2. Every citizen is equal before, equally protected by, and equally 
subject to, the law.


**Second Amendment**

3. The right of individuals to keep and bear Arms and ammunition shall 
not be infringed, restricted, or denied. Individuals must never be 
prevented from defending life, liberty, or property.

**Private Property Rights**

4. The pursuit by ~~an~~individual~~s~~ to rightfully acquire, keep and enjoy 
theirown property is foundational. Allindividuals have the right to 
develop their own potential, to use and enjoy their own property, 
tangible or intellectual, and pursue their own interests, free from 
restrictions of arbitrary force. Individuals are always presumed to be 
the best stewards of their property.


5. The Wyoming Republican Party supports the protection of private 
property from the use of eminent domain, civil asset forfeiture, 
amortization or inverse condemnation.


**Religious Freedom**

6. The freedom to practice one’s faith is a God given fundamental 
natural right, secured by both the Constitution of the United States 
and the Wyoming Constitution and shall never be infringed. The First 
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution and Article 1, Section 18 of the 
Wyoming Constitution does not permit the expulsion of religion from 
public life. We must keep in mind the Judeo-Christian principles of 
the Founding Fathers when they wrote it; the practice of faith under 
this tradition encourages good moral behavior and the development of 
character that helps secure the other fundamental bases of our national 
citizenship. Freedom of religion, and the free exercise thereof, 
includes the right
to abstain from actions contrary to one’s religious beliefs.


**Family Values**

7. The Wyoming Republican Party believes in God’s created order: that 
in His perfect design He created two sexes, male and female.


8. Marriage is a covenant of one man and one woman as defined by God.


9. The traditional family, based on the foundation of marriage between 
one man and one woman, is the best authority on how to provide children 
with the education and training to develop their potential and prepare 
them in society and in our government. Parental rights are a fundamental 
right.


**Liberty**

10. Liberty is indivisible from economic freedom. The free-market 
economy is the economic system most compatible with the requirements 
of personal freedom and constitutional government. Government’s undue 
interference in the market, as well as the fiscal irresponsibility of 
government, results in economic inequity. There exists no fundamental 
right to the fruits of another person’s labor.

1011. No medical procedure, modality, or treatment should ever be 
mandated under any circumstances.

**Citizenry Government by the Constitution**

12. The citizens of the United States are the ultimate sovereign 
authority. Governments possess just powers derived only from the consent 
of the governed.


13. Our constitutional representative republic remains the best 
political system, derived from history and knowledge of human nature, 
to prohibit tyranny, assure equality of opportunity and protect our 
individual rights.


14. The Constitution of the United States established a more perfect 
union of sovereign states, not a group of subordinate subsidiaries. 
Neither the judiciary nor the executive may effectively change the 
document via decisions, judicial opinions, or executive actions. 
The Constitution of the United States may only be altered by the 
processes of amendment as provided therein. The Constitution of the 
United States is the supreme law of the land. Under the Tenth 
Amendment, powers not enumerated in it are reserved to the States and 
the People. The most effective, responsible, and responsive government 
is the government that is closest to the People. Government that 
governs least governs best.

15. The integrity of our elections must be ensured upheld. The Wyoming 
Republican Party opposes any federal takeover or interference of 
federal, state, or local elections.

**American Exceptionalism and Sovereignty**

16. The United States must maintain and defend its national sovereignty 
free from foreign and domestic influences that would infringe on the 
rights of the American People guaranteed by the Constitution. Foreign 
policy must serve the just interests of the United States.  Legal 
immigration must be responsible and limited.


**Military**

17. It is imperative on the federal government to maintain a strong 
military defense for the protection of our people, our interests, and 
our way of life. Those who serve our country honorably deserve our 
deepest gratitude, highest respect and unwavering support.


**Taxes**

18. All taxes collected must be used for the constitutional purposes of 
government. It is irresponsible to run up debts that are passed on to 
our children and grandchildren. Taxes should never be more than 
necessary to meet the government’s constitutional obligations.   
These funds are the taxpayer’s, not the governments.

**Education**

19. We believe in the freedom for parents to choose how their children 
are to be educated.

20. The Wyoming Republican Party supports the teaching of the 
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of 
Wyoming, the Declaration of Independence, and other United States 
founding documents as well as the factual history and heritage of the 
United States in Wyoming schools and the historical evidence of the 
role of faith and biblical principles in the founding of our nation.


**Water and Land Rights**

21. The Wyoming Republican Party believes in the state’s primacy over 
water, wildlife, minerals, and natural resources, and the lands within 
Wyoming that were conveyed to the state by the U.S. Congress in the 
Act of Admission on July 10, 1890, and supports any actions which 
assures Wyoming’s primacy over its waters, and the doctrine of prior 
appropriations, and the lands within its borders and any other 
resources.


**Right to Work**

22. The Wyoming Republican Party opposes the unionization of public 
employees and supports the Right to Work Law.


**Civic Duty**

23. Our liberty and the continued success of our republican form of 
federal government demands continuous vigilance by “We the People of 
the United States and the sovereign citizens of Wyoming.”


**Free Speech**

24. Freedom of speech is a fundamental right secured by the United 
States Constitution and the Constitution of the State of Wyoming. 
Freedom of speech includes the freedom of the individual to express 
his or her beliefs, ideas and opinions without fear of retaliation, 
censorship or legal sanction by government.


Finally, having thus set forth our foundational principles and values, 
we invite all Wyoming citizens, who substantially agree with us, to 
offer their affirmation and support.


Passed:
Wyoming Republican Party State Convention, 22 May 7

$\color{red}{Inputs \space adopted \space March \space 2, \space 2024 \space at \space the \space Sheridan \space Wyoming \space Republican \space Party \space County \space Convention.}$
